added sf45 as a seperate rangefinder (#3448)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/sensor/sf45_rotating_lidar.md

The measurements in each sector will correspond to the lowest measurement the sensor had in that corresponding sector.
The data is then published to the [OBSTACLE_DISTANCE](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#OBSTACLE_DISTANCE) MAVLink message.

## Troubleshooting

### Common problems

Start-up issues, jerky movements, or a lot of communication errors displayed with `lightware_sf45_serial status` could mean that the sensor is not getting enough power.

According to its datasheet, the sensor needs 300 mA of current at 5V.
The supplied cable is fairly long and when connected to the 5V supply, such as the flight controller `TELEM2` port, the voltage at the rangefinder may drop below the required level.
One mitigation/alternative is to power the SF45 via a separate step-down converter from battery voltage, ensuring that there are 5V across the rangefinder itself.

### Debugging with PlotJuggler

Debugging problems with distance sensors is much easier if you can plot the [OBSTACLE_DISTANCE](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#OBSTACLE_DISTANCE) message in an x-y plot, because this lets you directly see the orientation of the measurement in respect of the drone.

> The video below shows how you can view such a plot in PlotJuggler.

Reviewer: I assume this is a live view as per https://docs.px4.io/main/en/debug/plotting_realtime_uorb_data.html ?

Can we link to this too?

Author: no, currently its just a log replay. i found a way you can adapt the script to use for realtime debugging with it, i can write the code for it in collision prevention in a seperate PR

Reviewer: Cool! I merged #3492 so can you try integrate the changes here now that exists?

<video src="../../assets/hardware/sensors/lidar_lightware/sf45_plotjuggler.mp4" width="720" controls></video>

> In order to generate this kind of plot you will need to add the following Reactive Scripts to PlotJuggler.

Reviewer: What is a Reactive Script? Is there a good link to a definition we can add here for someone wanting to learn more?

Author: Reactive scripts are Lua scripts inside plot juggler, sadly the documentation for PlotJuggler is severely lacking. So there's no good source on what it actually is.

If you save these scripts and then add new data, you will see a new timeseries called `obstacle_distance_xy`, which is the same as is displayed in the video.

> **Global code, executed once:**

Reviewer: Is it bleedingly obvious how you execute/add these scripts? If not then we need to either add a link to instructions or explain how here. Up to you which.

Author: Sadly not, i'll add a screenshot, and mention where the setting is.

Reviewer: @Claudio-Chies I'm going to merge this, but ...

I've added a tip above in https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/pull/3448/commits/55fcd83cc06ea56d49dd78606ce539b67cb26a51 to link to the more extensive example you provided in Collision prevention.

Do we need both sets of scripts and examples? In the tip I have said "go here for more info" since that shows how to get scripts working, but they do more or less the same thing right? I wonder if having two scripts like this makes sense? [why wouldn't you just use the collision prevention stuff?]

## Testing

You can confirm that the sensor is correctly configured by connecting QGroundControl, and observing that [OBSTACLE_DISTANCE](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#OBSTACLE_DISTANCE) is present in the [MAVLink Inspector](https://docs.qgroundcontrol.com/master/en/qgc-user-guide/analyze_view/mavlink_inspector.html).

The obstacle overlay in QGC will look like this:

![sf45 obstacle avoidance map shown in QGC](../../assets/hardware/sensors/lidar_lightware/sf45_obstacle_map.png)

## Driver Implementation

The [sensor driver](../modules/modules_driver_distance_sensor.md#lightware-sf45-serial) publishes the [ObstacleDistance](../msg_docs/ObstacleDistance.md) UORB Message that is used by PX4 [Collision Prevention](../computer_vision/collision_prevention.md).
The measurements in each sector will correspond to the lowest measurement the sensor had in that corresponding sector.
The data is then published to the [OBSTACLE_DISTANCE](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#OBSTACLE_DISTANCE) MAVLink message.

## Troubleshooting

> ### Common problems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Errors and Jerky Movements
```

## Testing

You can confirm that the sensor is correctly configured by connecting QGroundControl, and observing that [OBSTACLE_DISTANCE](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#OBSTACLE_DISTANCE) is present in the [MAVLink Inspector](https://docs.qgroundcontrol.com/master/en/qgc-user-guide/analyze_view/mavlink_inspector.html).

The obstacle overlay in QGC will look like this:

![sf45 obstacle avoidance map shown in QGC](../../assets/hardware/sensors/lidar_lightware/sf45_obstacle_map.png)

## Driver Implementation

The [sensor driver](../modules/modules_driver_distance_sensor.md#lightware-sf45-serial) publishes the [ObstacleDistance](../msg_docs/ObstacleDistance.md) UORB Message that is used by PX4 [Collision Prevention](../computer_vision/collision_prevention.md).
The measurements in each sector will correspond to the lowest measurement the sensor had in that corresponding sector.
The data is then published to the [OBSTACLE_DISTANCE](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#OBSTACLE_DISTANCE) MAVLink message.

> ## Debugging / Common problems
> If you are experiencing start-up issues, jerky movements or a lot of com errors displayed with `lightware_sf45_serial status` this could mean that you are having power issues.
> 
> The Sensor seems to be quite sensitive in regard to whether he gets enough power.
> According to the Datasheet, the sensor needs 300 mA of current at 5V, whereby the stock cable is fairly long and can cause problems where the voltage drops too much.
> So it's important to make sure that the cable is kept as short as possible.
> As an alternative, you can power the SF45 via a separate Step-down converter from battery voltage. With this approach, you're able to eliminate all power-related issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Debugging / Common problems

Start-up issues, jerky movements, or a lot of com errors displayed with `lightware_sf45_serial status` could mean that the sensor is not getting enough power.

According to its datasheet, the sensor needs 300 mA of current at 5V.
The stock cable is fairly long and can cause problems where the voltage drops too much, so it is important to keep the cable is kept as short as possible.

One mitigation/alternative is to power the SF45 via a separate step-down converter from battery voltage.
With this approach, you're able to eliminate all power-related issues.
```

Reviewer: @Claudio-Chies Where you say 

> The stock cable is fairly long and can cause problems where the voltage drops too much, so it is important to keep the cable is kept as short as possible.

Do you mean this is supplied with a cable but it is too long? Are you then proposing that the user gets a different cable that is shorter, or cuts this one back?

Depending on your answer I'll modify the suggestion above.

Author: Yes, the stock cable is 35cm, when using that cable, then supplying power from an BEC is recommended.

Reviewer: OK, I have modified the https://github.com/PX4/PX4-user_guide/pull/3448#discussion_r1868572214 and will merge. Please check it is right now.

Author: i've added a commit where i specify that we are talking about the 5V supply from TELEM ports, and not any 5V supply
